Mission Instructions: Your Trip to Mars
A large team of people on Earth make decisions to keep you and the other astronauts in your
crew safe and help you explore Mars:
• Flight Director (FD) leads the flight control team and is responsible for the overall
mission. The Flight Director makes all decisions regarding a safe flight.
• Communications Officer (Com Officer) serves as primary communicator between
the flight control team on Earth and the astronauts.
• Flight Activities Officer (FAO) plans and supports the astronauts’ activities,
procedures and schedules.
• Flight Surgeon (Surgeon) monitors the astronauts’ activities to keep track of their
health, and leads the medical operations flight control team to advise the astronauts on
health concerns and issues.
• Weather Officer provides up-to-date information on the potential weather or space
weather hazards near the spacecraft.
• Public Affairs Officer (PAO) provides information to the news media and the public

Step One Launch
Many factors are important in a launch—the equipment, the astronauts’ health, and even
the weather! Once your launch is successful, go to the “Travel to Mars” poster.

Step Two Travel to Mars
You travel for eight months to reach Mars. Like on a long road trip, it is sometimes hard for
you and your crew to get along in such a small space with little privacy. Thanks to years of
practice working as a team, you are all keeping a positive attitude during the long journey,
traveling far from your friends and family, and exercising daily to keep your bones and
muscles in shape without Earth’s gravity. 

Step Three Start a colony
Once you have arrived at Mars, you need to choose between three activities on Mars. Go to
one of the three posters:
Three A. Build a Mars crew habitat
Your habitat was delivered to the surface of Mars by robotic spacecraft, but it is still
tightly packaged from the journey and not yet assembled. Are you successful at
assembling it? 

OR
Three B. Grow crops
After surviving so long on freeze-dried packages of food that you brought with you from
Earth, you and your crew are hungry for fresh fruits and vegetables! You must plant
crops in a greenhouse and tend them for several weeks and months. Are you successful
at growing and harvesting the first crops on Mars?

OR
Three C. Search for ice deposits
You and your crew — and your crops — need water to survive. Water can also be
used to manufacture oxygen to breathe or to make rocket fuel. Take a trip to some
nearby ice deposits and bring ice back to the colony to melt for water. 

Step Four Return to Earth
You and the rest of your crew have explored Mars and it’s time to return to Earth. It’s been a
long trip, but you’re looking forward to being back home again!

You and your crew are home after a triumphant mission to Mars! Welcome home! 